# Strategies for Getting Unstuck

## Learning Goals

- Identify strategies for getting unstuck

## Introduction

It happens to all developers at some point: you're on a coding roll, and then
you hit a rough patch. You start trying different solutions, but none of them
work and you keep getting farther and farther off track. That's why it's useful
to have a set of strategies for working through complicated issues and getting
yourself unstuck.

## Identify Strategies for Getting Unstuck

As we've talked about before, programming is, at its fundamental level, a
process of solving problems. So, when our programming gets difficult or
confusing, it usually helps us to think about generalized problem solving and
how we can apply those techniques to our particular issue at hand.

We have a few approaches to try when we get stuck. Let's take a look at each and
how they apply when we're coding.

1. **Simplify the problem.** Check your goal. Is it too complex? Does it try to
solve multiple issues at the same time? You might be able to dismiss one or two
or a few issues and solve a more straightforward version of the problem.

2. **Research similar problems and solutions.** The internet is your friend.
Search for examples of solutions trying to achieve the same goal as yours. While
you obviously don't want to cut and paste code into your own solution (not only
is this not going to increase your understanding, it probably won't fit your
specific needs), looking at similar problems might suggest something new to try.

3. **Look at the problem from a different angle.** This is an easy trap to fall
into if you're working on a problem like others you've done before. You might
instantly apply the same solution. But if anything is different or more complex,
that same solution isn't going to work. Remember to take a step back and
reconsider your assumptions about the way forward.

4. **Break the problem down into smaller parts.** This is similar to our first
approach, simplify the problem, but it's less about the problem itself than how
were working through it. Instead of trying to fix an entire app, can you focus
on a block of code? A line of code? If fighting your way through too much code
at once is what's getting stuck, you can adjust your context and take each piece
one step at a time.

5. **Start with a solution and solve the problem backwards.** This is the
approach to take if you know exactly what your result should be but aren't sure
how to get there. Start at the end and determine what it would take to get
there.

## Conclusion

If you find yourself stuck in a coding problem, following a methodology of
problem solving will help suggest different approaches to try and help you get
yourself unstuck.

## Resources

- [A Universal Way to Solve Problems from a Mathematical Genius](https://qz.com/1365059/a-universal-way-to-solve-problems-from-a-mathematical-genius/)
